While LLMs have become
famous for their
ability to perform
many different language
tasks within a single model,
your application may only need
to perform a single task.
In this case, you can fine-tune
a pre-trained model to
improve performance
on only the task
that is of interest to you.
For example, summarization using
a dataset of examples
for that task.
Interestingly, good
results can be
achieved with relatively
few examples.
Often just 500-1,000
examples can result in
good performance in
contrast to the billions of
pieces of texts that the model
saw during pre-training.
However, there is a
potential downside
to fine-tuning on a single task.
The process may lead to
a phenomenon called
catastrophic forgetting.
Catastrophic forgetting
happens because
the full fine-tuning process
modifies the weights
of the original LLM.
While this leads to
great performance
on the single fine-tuning task,
it can degrade performance
on other tasks.
For example, while
fine-tuning can
improve the ability
of a model to perform
sentiment analysis on a review
and result in a
quality completion,
the model may forget
how to do other tasks.
This model knew how to carry out
named entity recognition before
fine-tuning correctly
identifying Charlie
as the name of the
cat in the sentence.
But after fine-tuning,
the model can no longer
carry out this task,
confusing both the
entity it is supposed to
identify and exhibiting behavior
related to the new task.
What options do you have
to avoid catastrophic
forgetting?
First of all, it's
important to decide whether
catastrophic forgetting
actually impacts your use case.
If all you need is
reliable performance on
the single task
you fine-tuned on,
it may not be an
issue that the model
can't generalize to other tasks.
If you do want or
need the model to
maintain its multitask
generalized capabilities,
you can perform fine-tuning on
multiple tasks at one time.
Good multitask fine-tuning may
require 50-100,000 examples
across many tasks,
and so will require more
data and compute to train.
Will discuss this option
in more detail shortly.
Our second option is to perform
parameter efficient fine-tuning,
or PEFT for short instead
of full fine-tuning.
PEFT is a set of techniques that
preserves the weights
of the original LLM and
trains only a small number of
task-specific adapter
layers and parameters.
PEFT shows greater robustness to
catastrophic forgetting
since most of
the pre-trained weights
are left unchanged.
PEFT is an exciting
and active area of
research that we will
cover later this week.
In the meantime, let's move
on to the next video and
take a closer look at
multitask fine-tuning.